Welcome back everyone.
We just discussed how to evaluate performance for classification problems.
Now let's understand how to evaluate performance for regression tests so we can take a moment to discuss
how do we evaluate a model which is performing some sort of regression task.
And in general a regression is the task when a model attempts to predict continuous values.
Unlike those classification tasks where we're trying to predict categorical values so you may have heard
of some evaluation metrics such as accuracy or recall or precision like we just discussed.
However these sort of metrics aren't going to be useful for regression problems.
It doesn't really makes sense to calculate the accuracy or recall of a regression task since you are
actually classifying things.
Instead you're predicting a continuous value.
So we need new metrics designed for those continuous values.
For example imagine we're attempting to predict the price of a house given its features.
That would be a regression task or attempting to predict the country.
A house is in.
Given its features that would be a classification task.
And again we're focused right now on how to evaluate that regression task where a label is continuous
and it's not separate categories.
So again to discuss the most common evaluation metrics for regression which are mean absolute error
means squared error and then root mean square error.
So let's begin with the simplest which is mean absolute error.
And this one is the easiest to understand essentially all you're gonna do is you're going to compare
your predictions and remember we're comparing a continuous value here since this is a regression task
we're going to compare our predictions to the true y label for example compare the actual prediction
of the house price with the true house price and what we do is we just take difference between the true
price minus our predicted price that's why we take the absolute value of that and the reason we take
the absolute value is because technically our predictions could be over or under the true value and
since we want to averages out across all our predictions we take the absolute value.
Okay so that's the mean absolute error essentially you're just taking the differences between your prediction
versus the true label you take the absolute value of that and then you average that out for all your
predictions.
Now the issue with mean absolute error is it won't punish large errors.
So here we have what's known as ans comes quartet and we can see here that we have a wide variety of
different scatters of data points here.
However the line of best fit for all of these is actually the same.
So we want to make sure that we're aware of situations like this.
For example let's take a look at this specific situation.
We have one point that's a huge outlier so we want our air metrics to actually account for these.
So what we can do is actually use mean square error.
And this is the mean of the squared errors.
So we're doing here is we're gonna take the difference between the true value minus our predicted value
and we're going to square it.
And as you can imagine when we actually take that square the larger errors are noted more than with
mean absolute error which makes means squared error more popular because you're really going to punish
your model for those outlier situations that it's not fitting to.
And we no longer need to take the absolute value because anything squared ends up being positive.
However there's another issue that we run to with means squared error that's squaring of the actual
label minus her prediction.
Actually also squares the units themselves.
So for example if you're predicting the price of a house then our error metric with mean absolute error
would be in dollars but with means squared error.
We end up getting an error metric in units of dollars squared which is difficult to interpret so the
way we fix this is with the root means squared error essentially at the end you just take the square
root of your means squared error.
So this is the most popular because it does both punish those larger error values and at the end of
the day it has the same metrics or same units as y now.
The most common question again I get from students is hey is this value of root means squared error
I got good.
And as always context is everything.
Let's imagine you were performing some sort of machinery model and you got a root mean square error
of ten dollars and you're asking me Is this good enough routine squared error.
Well it really depends on the context of the situation.
Means quarter of ten dollars would be fantastic if you're predicting the price of a house since ten
dollars is tiny compared to the average price of a house.
But if you're machine learning model was supposed to predict the price of a candy bar based on its features
and your route means quarter was ten dollars.
That's actually really bad so we should do is you should compare your error metric for the regression
task to the average value of the label.
That is the mean value in your dataset to try to get an intuition of its overall performance.
And as always domain knowledge also plays a really important role here.
So machine learning again it's not done in a vacuum it's usually done with a collaborative process.
So if you're predicting the prices of a house and you wanted to get an idea if your routine scored error
was good or not it's probably a good idea to start talking to someone with experience like a real estate
agent.
OK so now we understand the different metrics you can use for evaluating the performance of a regression
task.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.